So I'm talking about language types to
understand where PHP is actually located.
So we have compiled languages where
you write code in those languages and
you ship machine code.
For example, C, C++,
Go are languages in this part.
We have languages where you write code in,
for
example, C-sharp, and
you then ship bytecode.
So you compile to an intermediate
language, and then you ship bytecode,
for example, Java.
And then we have interpreted languages,
or scripts Scripting languages,
sometimes we say where we
directly ship the source code.
Where we deploy to the server or
to the platform directly
the source code,
PHP belongs to this list, okay?
So with PHP, you will publish your source
code directly to the server, okay?
Like with JavaScript
that we publish directly,
the source code to the browser, okay?
Things like that.
Okay, so key features of PHP before
actually going and writing some code.
It's a very, very, but
very flexible language.
We mentioned that a couple
of times at this point.
So it's platform, so the interpreter
is available for Unix-based system,
for Windows, for Linux, for Mac.
There is an interpreter for Android,
in case you want to do that.
We mentioned that we have
one in JavaScript now, so
you can actually run it in the browser.
So we have interpreters of PHP everywhere.
Also, it has a wide, probably one of the
widest database support APIs available.
So you can actually use any database.
Of course, that's on a language you
also have for the main providers, but
there are some not so
well-known databases out there.
Well, PHP has support for it.
It's open source,
we already mentioned that.
It's multi-paradigm,
this is what I said before.
You wanna do OP, go ahead.
You don't wanna repeat, you don't need to.
So you can just write code like
spaghetti code and it will work.
It has a very rich standard library,
rich in terms of the amount of
functions that are available.
That's also one of the main criticisms
are coming to that library,
because it's actually a list of
thousands of global functions that
are not sometimes following
the same naming guideline.
As I mentioned before,
is null, is set, we have one,
we underscore, the other one doesn't
have underscore, so it's kind of a rich.
A list of functions, you will always
find a function you want, but
sometimes you also have several ways to do
the same thing with different paradigms.
This is something that
we don't see these days.
It has session management built in that
one of the great advantages of PHP.
And it's still a great advantage
today compared with Node.js or
Python when you're doing backend.
So what is session management?
It has some kind of a library built in,
I mean, it's not magic,
I will explain how it works.
But when you visit a website, a PHP,
you can store variables in the session,
server side.
Then if the user continues
navigating your website,
you can get those variables
on additional requests,
on future requests, and
automatically, it just works.
Internally, it's creating cookies and
to create a session ID and
saving those variables service update.
It has all that thing built in.
So a web designer without branding
comes where programming knowledge or
skills can quickly do that.
So you fill your name in a form and you
save that In the session and then you know
the name of the user, you don't need
a database, you don't need to do anything.
You shall save something in the session
and automatically that works because
you know that HTTP, the protocol
we're using on the web is stateless.
So on every new HTP request
we are making it a new one.
It doesn't have a relationship
with the previous one.
So from a service point of view,
we don't know if this request is coming
from the same user as five minutes ago,
so I don't know.
So we have to use a design pattern.
In fact, you hack that to know server
side if it's the same user or not.
Well, session management is built in PHP.
And we can get from an idea to
an app in a matter of minutes.
When you already know PHP,
I mean, when you are doing that,
when you're using, I don't know,
you want to use Express.js with Node.js,
yeah, you need to create a server.
You need to install dependency,
you need to do this and that.
With PHP, you can just write three,
four lines of code and
yeah, we can discuss if we can
scale that If it's secure,
it doesn't matter, but we can get
an MVP [LAUGH] really fast, okay?
A minimal viable product.
Why did you learn PHP fundamentals now?
Well, we already mentioned some parts,
but the web is powered by PHP.
So it's always a good
skill to have in your
resume to maintain legacy web apps.
Because by the way, it's true, it's
difficult to find a company these days,
mostly in a startup that says, we
are going to start a new AI company, and
everything will be based in PHP.
Yeah, that's not actually
the most common situation.
Okay, for different reasons.
It doesn't matter, but
it's true that that's not the situation.
So it will be more common to maintain
web apps that were created in
the past 25 years.
Of course, if you use WordPress,
Joomla, Drupal,
you will need PHP to
extend the basic behavior.
So it's good to know the language and
understand the basics.
Or if you're going to use one of the more
popular web frameworks these days,
Symfony, Laravel, or Code Igniter,
there are more, okay?
But those are more popular than Django or
Java frameworks for
the web, they're far more popular, okay?
Again, maybe in the long tail,
maybe not in the mainstream,
cool Silicon Valley companies,
maybe in the long tail of the web,
we have more usage of these frameworks.